Luigi Iannone: Hello!
Yutaka OIWA: Hello! Can you hear me?
Michael Richardson: Yes. Can you hear me?
Nancy: Happy New Year.
Luigi Iannone: Happy New Year.
Luigi Iannone: Wait just one or one more minute. Then we can start, okay.
Yutaka OIWA: To our exchanged in this slide.
Luigi Iannone: We can like that when we.
Yutaka OIWA: We speak.
Luigi Iannone: About the naming good observer.
Yutaka OIWA: Wow, also, s is, see.
Luigi Iannone: Okay, maybe we can start
Luigi Iannone: Here we go.
Luigi Iannone: Welcome, everybody. This is the our 1st meeting this year. So again, Happy New Year to everyone.
Luigi Iannone: we have a relatively simple agenda. Okay? The main topic today will be the charter in order to make progress.
Luigi Iannone: since next week will be the deadline for the both request, and you know this will be our second request.
Luigi Iannone: So we have to go for a working room for me both.
Luigi Iannone: and we have to be ready. Okay.
Luigi Iannone: and then we can discuss a little bit on the new naming. There was some discussion on the mailing list. So with several proposals.
Luigi Iannone: and depend on on the time, if there is still time, there is mailing chain
Luigi Iannone: that offered to present the progress on the service model. And there was also a recent email from Hank
Luigi Iannone: about the conceptual message proper in rats
Luigi Iannone: that he thinks is can fit in can be used in NASA. Okay? So if time is allowed, we will. We will end up with these presentations.
Luigi Iannone: Okay, other than that.
Luigi Iannone: Do you have any comment or anything to add to the minutes we shared for the last interim.
Luigi Iannone: Apparently not so I. I go directly to the, to the chapter. So
Luigi Iannone: since the last interim meeting. I wanted a little bit, just the the info sentences that did at the beginning of the the charter which
Luigi Iannone: you can see in this slide. The the changes. So before there was a
Luigi Iannone: simple paragraph with lines, I added a little bit
Luigi Iannone: of more context than to what what we
Luigi Iannone: we want to do. And what are the the limitation that we we have today?
Luigi Iannone: Okay.
Yutaka OIWA: Can I have some comment?
Luigi Iannone: Sure. That's why we.
Yutaka OIWA: Yeah, yeah, that's good. But we are using. We are on the 1st sentence we are using, but not fasting in some sense, because we are always using encryption. So communication communicating something like that. So
Yutaka OIWA: the how to say we, maybe it's for me it's better. Don't use trust in this paragraph before talking about encryption
Yutaka OIWA: concept is agreed. So just a ticket, separate proposal.
Luigi Iannone: You say something like this.
Yutaka OIWA: Yeah, that may be confusing.
Luigi Iannone: Avoid trust.
Luigi Iannone: Single blindly, use.
Yutaka OIWA: Use. Yeah, that that's true. So
Yutaka OIWA: Theta are not trusted. They blindly use Spanish.
Luigi Iannone: I, see.
Nancy: Luigi. I started doing editing more on the request, but it's part of the charter blindly also has connotations.
Nancy: So I actually liked.
Nancy: Personally, I prefer a shorter Crispr. So I was trying to understand why
Nancy: we elaborated from the before to the now.
Luigi Iannone: That. That's I explained that that was my initiative.
Luigi Iannone: in my opinion, I wanted to make clear a little bit. What? What are the limitations that we have? So that that right away, we, we have a context. So the fact
Luigi Iannone: and my idea was the fact that applications. Or anyway, we we use pass in a certain way, maybe blindly, is not the right term. It's just that we we take whatever the control plane gives us and we use it. But we don't have a
Luigi Iannone: explicit way to to explore the the attributes, the the properties of the past, except for
Luigi Iannone: things like very simple, like like throughput latency, something like that. And that is the gap where where Nasser is positioning.
Luigi Iannone: That was my main idea.
Nancy: So if I right. So if I were to decompose this, I mean.
Nancy: there's still algorithms. So the way I would look at it is from an evolutionary path for the technology.
Nancy: Security was not considered. However, in order for the Internet to work, you must provide a performant
Nancy: right performance protocols for routers. I'm just picking routers now and so performant implied that we needed to
Nancy: be efficient vis-a-vis. The latency throughput congestion.
Nancy: scalability could be another one.
Nancy: But now, with the recent attacks, and somewhere you you had. I'm looking more at the top one.
Nancy: We've included things like confidentiality, confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity for the data plane but with increasing attacks
Nancy: we require more of not just the protection of the data.
Nancy: But and now I'm looking at your second one, and I'm harping on the word audit.
Nancy: Is it that we need auditing? Is it that we need visibility?
Nancy: Is it that we need enforcement
Nancy: to me? These 3 things can be solved in subtly different ways, or we could do it in a single method. But all of this to me goes to
Nancy: what we're talking about is if we're talking about enforcement from a routing forwarding
Nancy: position or from an auditing and visibility, meaning, if an operator
Nancy: or the owner of a deployment wants to ensure that the path that's taken is using
Nancy: network nodes that are deemed to be compliant.
Nancy: compliant to a set of claims.
Nancy: Then to me, that's the next step of an evolution.
Nancy: So it's not like
Nancy: what's been happening is really bad. It's that we're needing to react to the realities of
Nancy: the attack. Surface having grown, does that make sense? Yeah.
Luigi Iannone: Yes, a a couple of comments from my side. You started with the the word Internet. I would avoid that because we are not going to for something. Internet wide. So
Nancy: And so.
Luigi Iannone: But I.
Nancy: Go ahead, Luigi, go ahead. Sorry.
Luigi Iannone: The last part of of what you say that the compliance is is exactly
Luigi Iannone: I think, what what we are focusing on the fact that we want to use a pass, that that where the the network elements are compliant to a set of claims that is nicely formulated,
Luigi Iannone: a a little bit concerned about the word enforcement. Because if we want to enforce something, then we need to have an impact on the control plane, which means routing, which is something
Luigi Iannone: we we don't want now we we, as far as I'm my, is my understanding is
Luigi Iannone: the console thing. So the routing give. Give us a set of pass.
Luigi Iannone: and we want a tool to verify whether or not these paths are compliant to a set of claims. As you nicely stated.
Luigi Iannone: once we have that we choose one or several.
Luigi Iannone: I mean to send the traffic.
Luigi Iannone: and we want to approve that our actual traffic went through the pass.
Luigi Iannone: or several paths that we selected, because they they're compliant with our claims.
Nancy: Okay. So I use the word.
Nancy: sorry, Michael. I'm too too slow. Typing.
Nancy: I also didn't like the notion of saying Internet architecture.
Nancy: Right?
Nancy: So I actually preferred the previous motivation, because to me it was not that it's perfect, but it was simpler.
Luigi Iannone: Okay.
Nancy: And it went to the point of
Nancy: the evolution is, we're seeing an increased number of attacks
Nancy: that now go to not just
Nancy: the need to protect the data traffic, but to also ensure that
Nancy: the nodes along. And now I'll I'll use my terminology. The nodes in a network deployment
Nancy: right? And we can argue, customer could be
Nancy: an enterprise. Customer could be a service provider providing that service. But but in the notion of
Nancy: how the data traffic goes from point A to Point B, that that network deployment
Nancy: abides by a certain set of compliance.
Nancy: we can leave the enforcement absolutely. I agree with you. Enforcement is not in scope here. And again it goes to the How do we provide the right mechanisms by at least
Nancy: ensuring that there's some visibility or auditability that the nodes that are being used are, and
Nancy: I wouldn't use the word trust. Either I might use the word.
Luigi Iannone: Agreed.
Nancy: Client right
Nancy: To a set of of claims.
Peter Liu: I agree to that.
Luigi Iannone: Me, too. I mean, we can simply roll back and simplify again, and and use the your wording.
Nancy: So I apologize. I started wordsmithing. But my system crashed.
Nancy: Anyway, I can try and offer a rewording.
Nancy: Later. Yes.
Luigi Iannone: Okay.
Peter Liu: Thank you, Nancy.
Luigi Iannone: Okay. So in the
Luigi Iannone: Next part was the the let's say the the
Luigi Iannone: central part of the motivation and the ground
Luigi Iannone: which I proposed a pull request.
Luigi Iannone: The main thing is actually to avoid clients and use customers. Why that? Because to avoid
Luigi Iannone: confusing clients like a web client or yeah, the
Luigi Iannone: I also sansa glide.
Nancy: Right. I also had a question on customers.
Luigi Iannone: Please.
Nancy: I would just leave it out with.
Nancy: I would still use the mechanical something like
Nancy: network deployments.
Nancy: Network deployments today require elevate security. Privacy. Right?
Nancy: beyond the right. The data plane.
Nancy: Because customer
Luigi Iannone: Do.
Nancy: There's very different profiles at Cisco. We use personas. Sorry. So I was, gonna say, persona, so
Nancy: is a customer much like I had the same question for clients, right is a customer.
Nancy: A Ciso is a customer, the network administrator.
Nancy: Is it the secops?
Nancy: Is it the actual user.
Luigi Iannone: Yes.
Nancy: See what I mean.
Yutaka OIWA: Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha!
Luigi Iannone: I see, I see. For me it was just
Luigi Iannone: The idea was, we have a the nasser service. So
Luigi Iannone: the customer is whoever buys the service in a certain way. Now, is it too generic? I may agree?
Luigi Iannone: We can use certainly use something like network deployments.
Luigi Iannone: Not sure network deployments works in all of the sentences, but we can rephrase, I mean, and
Luigi Iannone: it's fine.
Yutaka OIWA: Oh, maybe we have to mixed issue here. So I I if I if raise the Nancy's comments so
Yutaka OIWA: In this sentence it introduced both how to say the problem statement and also
Yutaka OIWA: implicitly introducing Grant's taba tabas model.
Yutaka OIWA: So maybe the bottom half, maybe depending on the
Yutaka OIWA: from the second clients. Customers like line 7 or 8 line 8
Yutaka OIWA: is talking, depending on the current server model service model. But the fast before that is more generic
Yutaka OIWA: can be described in generic way. So if we change the customers to the network deployment or something like that, the latter half.
Yutaka OIWA: yeah, might need some rearrangement to move moves to moderator paragraph, or something like that.
Peter Liu: Sorry if I may jump in I kind of drafted this paragraph before. So the the client that I you know, you know I wanted to refer to is actually very simple. Use case a a connectivity service offered by the the operators to.
Peter Liu: for example, business enterprises between, you know, campuses. So they want this. You know, business oriented connectivity service. So in this case the clients are just the companies that receive this connectivity service. So I think
Nancy: So so, Peter, in a more general sense, and I apologize for cutting people off.
Nancy: I think in this instance, what we're talking about is the administrators
Nancy: of a service, because it's not just operators. It could be. And that's why I was saying right, is it a network administrator? Is it a Ciso, is it? But I think what we're all agreeing is that in general
Nancy: there is a requirement that when they light up
Nancy: and sorry, I still keep harping to when they light up their network deployment.
Nancy: whether it's through an operator or not. They have requirements such that
Nancy: they want to ensure that the devices that are providing that connectivity have the
Nancy: the comply. And I'm using compliance markers here. But Peter, putting the word that you have here right?
Nancy: That the nodes have the latest security updates have, you know, past integrity checks and so on.
Nancy: But again, right? That they pass a certain set of of claims.
Peter Liu: Yes, security attributes. Yes.
Nancy: Correct.
Nancy: So I don't know that, you know, this goes specifically to a service provider use case. But I think
Nancy: from a charter perspective, I don't think we want a solution just for service providers.
Nancy: and I'm just looking at your last sentence there. Accordingly, operators should provide verifiable proofs. Right? It's not operators. It's
Nancy: the service or the solution needs to enable the ability to provide these sets of opticians.
Peter Liu: So. So you're suggesting to change the word operator to service, general service provider.
Yutaka OIWA: Oh, I think no.
Luigi Iannone: Just service.
Peter Liu: Okay.
Peter Liu: Yeah.
Luigi Iannone: So we we yeah, we replace customer with something like network deployment
Luigi Iannone: operators with service. And we need to rearrange a little bit
Luigi Iannone: the sentences in order to have the.
Nancy: Yes, I I really was. I apologize. I was like rewriting stuff.
Nancy: which I've lost, but I can recover it.
Peter Liu: Oh!
Nancy: And I'm.
Peter Liu: Yeah, that would be very appreciated. Thanks.
Nancy: I don't want to.
Luigi Iannone: Nice.
Luigi Iannone: So I don't have more on the slides, but we can go on the directly on the charter.
Luigi Iannone: So this is the the the text.
Yutaka OIWA: We're still with the class here.
Luigi Iannone: So what we have then, is the the goals and the scope which should work a little bit on this part.
Luigi Iannone: I'm not sure we need the out of Scope section of if we need it. I would put it later on.
Luigi Iannone: and I'm not sure we need this paragraph. If we we have this part here at the end.
Nancy: That is correct.
Luigi Iannone: So I would copies and opinions whether or not we should have an out of scope
Luigi Iannone: section. Let's call it that way or list
Yutaka OIWA: Hmm.
Peter Liu: Right.
Luigi Iannone: Should we? Should we put here in the charter explicitly, that the autoscope part is doubting, we have to face it somehow.
Luigi Iannone: The integrity and this stuff like here and we
Luigi Iannone: in the previous boss we received in the chat. They discussed a little bit on the proof of non-transit.
Luigi Iannone: and John scatter also raised the same question when I presented in partner G.
Luigi Iannone: So if we.
Luigi Iannone: if we keep the out of scope part, we, we could mention also the the fact that yeah.
Luigi Iannone: we will not work of the on the proof of non-transit. But because, yeah.
Luigi Iannone: it's difficult to say is a solvable problem.
Luigi Iannone: So we're gonna waste time on working on that. And if it is solvable, so only
Luigi Iannone: from my understanding, at least my knowledge only in specific cases and deployments.
Luigi Iannone: It's hard to to find a generic framework of proof of non-transit, so I would some leave it.
Luigi Iannone: Death on the counter side. Still in the last in the previous both
Luigi Iannone: there was a in the chat. They mentioned the fact to have a threat model.
Luigi Iannone: so we may want to somehow
Luigi Iannone: state that either in one of the documents that we have both items here.
Luigi Iannone: we will present the threat model, or we'll have an explicit document on the threat model
Luigi Iannone: in order to to
Luigi Iannone: be rigorous on what we are able to protect and what we are able not to protect.
Luigi Iannone: Okay, what is covered by NASA, what is not covered, so
Luigi Iannone: especially for the proof of transit.
Yutaka OIWA: I agree we need some document for that.
Yutaka OIWA: and I afraid we are not well understand.
Yutaka OIWA: No one understood the true street model for this problem. So in the chatter. So you wrote, we wrote.
Yutaka OIWA: we wrote that we cannot accept the simple encryption nowadays. But but
Yutaka OIWA: And
Yutaka OIWA: my concern was that that is not very backed up by some facts or something like that. So we need to discuss.
Yutaka OIWA: or a survey that's right there.
Yutaka OIWA: so sweet when they are nices, or something like that.
Luigi Iannone: Okay.
Peter Liu: So.
Peter Liu: so, so regarding the threat model. Because we're more like, you know, another direction from. So we we are not looking for, you know, attack services or looking for, you know.
Peter Liu: Vulnerabilities. We're actually doing it in in that the other way to, you know, to show that there's
Peter Liu: you know not. We're not looking for vulnerabilities, but we are building trust from, you know, rats based.
Yutaka OIWA: That's not true. So by existence of the 3 model we can
Yutaka OIWA: counter majors like based on those that based on that. So treat, mother is just a list of how to say bug based vulnerability or something like that. So
Yutaka OIWA: the fleet model is a more generic than applicable for our cases. Of course, we are not doing the how to say the vulnerability or software, something like that.
Luigi Iannone: I think the point is not to interpret threat, model, like what are the vulnerabilities, but later lay out what
Luigi Iannone: we protect like for the proof of transit. What? What exactly can we prove?
Luigi Iannone: Okay, and what cannot be proved, at least with the solution the nasser will
Luigi Iannone: we come up with is just that no, it's he's he's.
Yutaka OIWA: But still we need some straight model that this thing only that solved the solutions are not enough for
Yutaka OIWA: security consideration, purpose. So
Yutaka OIWA: so we need some model for the network operation, assuming some kind of, I'd say, not by not
Yutaka OIWA: not a bug, but attack surfaces
Yutaka OIWA: like a traffic analysis or something like that, or log route, or something like that, and for for which?
Yutaka OIWA: we.
Yutaka OIWA: we are not how to say, not only these things that solve the problem. But we should face this all problems and
Yutaka OIWA: right.
Yutaka OIWA: how the proof of transit can solve that we need to develop more technology in the next step or something like that. So that's a straight model analysis.
Luigi Iannone: The same time, we don't need a specific document. Maybe we can also
Luigi Iannone: maybe include this type of analysis in the Service model document.
Yutaka OIWA: Maybe. Maybe. Yeah. If combined, it should be in the program statement document instead.
Antoine Fressancourt: Yeah, because, in fact, I'm not quite sure it's a full set model. But what I heard from the last buff is that we need to be clear, not overselling what Nasser, or whichever name will be in the future in the working group
Antoine Fressancourt: we are working on, because I think that
Antoine Fressancourt: one major drawback that I saw from the name, and is that people had higher expectation about protections that would be out of the technology worked on another than what we agree on in this group would be the outcome of the of the work.
Antoine Fressancourt: So
Antoine Fressancourt: is it a threat model? I think it's say, Okay, we are protecting against this attack against this kind of attacker and that. And that's it. We are not protecting the whole Internet against manipulation, of routing messages or or things like that. So it's it's really about positioning what NASA is doing with regards to how you
Antoine Fressancourt: and maintain secure routing and forwarding decision over limited domain and not on the Internet. And this kind of things.
Nancy: Yeah, I I don't know that I would use secure.
Nancy: I use the word compliance.
Nancy: You're getting an attestation to a set of claims.
Nancy: The claim necessarily provide improved security.
Nancy: Right? You can it as yes, you can trust it right.
Antoine Fressancourt: At least. Well, I I agree that security might not be the proper world, but at least you. The packet follows the pass. It's intended to follow.
Antoine Fressancourt: according to what you consider compliant with your requirements.
Nancy: Right.
Peter Liu: So I do agree. It's about compliance. It's about requirements and and compliance. But usually, but in this case our compliance is oriented to the security perspectives.
Peter Liu: So that may be part. That's a little bit tricky.
Peter Liu: So is this the does. The security means the routing security or the security, you know, attributes or security claims.
Luigi Iannone: Maybe for now we can just in the in, the in the
Luigi Iannone: problem, statement, requirements will will include a threat analysis or and
Luigi Iannone: Yeah, then we will see how this evolve. But.
Yutaka OIWA: So.
Luigi Iannone: What we need.
Luigi Iannone: We want to protect them. What we don't want or cannot.
Yutaka OIWA: So administrative question. So how important is how rigid is the list of work items. Is it
Yutaka OIWA: a binding? The number of documents we
Yutaka OIWA: doing? And if, for example, if we need data, we need a program statement and state model are separated, we do we need the chartering? Or
Yutaka OIWA: we can just say, these 2 documents corresponding to this singular app item.
Nancy: Yeah.
Luigi Iannone: The work. I Oh, go ahead, man.
Nancy: Go ahead! Go ahead, Luigi.
Luigi Iannone: Usually the work items are translated in milestones associated with the charter, and that you agree on with your ad
Luigi Iannone: and the milestones can be changed if the ad agrees, and you don't need to. Recharge, however, doesn't, doesn't.
Luigi Iannone: doesn't mean that you cannot. Whatever document will you?
Luigi Iannone: As to be in the scope of the chart.
Yutaka OIWA: I see just middle of the hard end of the requirements, I see. Thank you.
Yutaka OIWA: Yeah. In that case.
Yutaka OIWA: Yeah. In that case that can be included in the town, the problem to be solved
Yutaka OIWA: covering what we need to discuss at this moment. So we can start writing and
Yutaka OIWA: consider the foundation. If we need data.
Meiling Chen: Okay, I want back to Nancy's divorce compliance.
Meiling Chen: I think the compliance of users requirement is for security purpose. So why? Why do we think compliance is more proper than security.
Nancy: So to me security has connotations.
Nancy: Which we cannot guarantee, so what could be secure to me is not necessarily secure to you.
Yutaka OIWA: They're.
Nancy: From a profile right? At which, unless you're gonna have a
Nancy: unless well, it depends on how we shape the work items here as well.
Nancy: But
Nancy: To me the the definition of
Nancy: I'm trying to remember the words that we used in the background.
Nancy: There's a set of attributes. Yes, and I think there would be some definition, maybe, of what the
Nancy: mandatory to implement claims are going to be right. The path attestation claim sets that go towards
Nancy: that requirement. Now to me I question again.
Nancy: and one can argue, does that improve the security?
Nancy: Does that improve the level of trust?
Nancy: And to me.
Nancy: These attestations elevate the trust that you have. I don't know necessarily to me it's a subtle difference.
Nancy: but I it's a difference to me still that it. It elevates the trust, but not necessarily improves the security properties.
Yutaka OIWA: Well
Peter Liu: Well, part, you know, part of of purpose is to make, you know, to to to make discretions to, you know, separate the
Peter Liu: so some devices with high security. You know, standards and some are have lower security standards, and by separating them and choosing only the the more secure, so so to speak, devices and and connect them into a path and a service. This is like this. This thing alone is to, you know, providing more security to the connectivity solution. If that makes sense.
Luigi Iannone: This is just a type of claim right? Because you can claim higher security another service can claim. I want
Luigi Iannone: network elements that are
Luigi Iannone: located only in France, because I need to to share sensible data on the my flow. And by by law, I'm not allowed to send this type of data outside France. So the claim I may relax the the let's say, the device security level as a trade off to make sure that the the device is in located in France. So it's a different claim.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah, but we have different claims. But we want a path that is compliant with our claims.
Luigi Iannone: So to me that the word compliance is okay.
Yutaka OIWA: My comment is, compliance is very generic word, so as a faster use of the time at least, compliance to how to say requirements, or something like that.
Yutaka OIWA: so not like a compliance to the laws, or something like that. So I understand the Nazis point in generally agreeing on that. But
Yutaka OIWA: phrasing need some a bit more.
Yutaka OIWA: How to say precise statement is needed. So maybe compliance to
Yutaka OIWA: what time we are using requirements, or something like that.
Nancy: I didn't think we were using
Nancy: security.
Luigi Iannone: Do security right? We don't force any security technology mechanism whatever. We.
Peter Liu: Not. We're not inventing some new security mechanism or anything. It's more like a visibility.
Peter Liu: But but it's still right.
Peter Liu: But the subject to visualize is about security perspectives. So this is why
Peter Liu: it is a little bit tricky calm.
Peter Liu: but all in all, I think in the end of the day the reason that we want to do this work is we want to provide more security and confidence
Peter Liu: to the connectivity service that we provide to the, to our customers.
Nancy: And and that's where the word trust is more appropriate.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah, I was about to say the same thing. This is more about trustworthiness. I would say.
Nancy: Right.
Peter Liu: Well, well, I I don't object to the word trust, but
Peter Liu: I'm just trying to avoid the the mind. You know the subject. It might be 2 subjects to, to brand the word trust, but I personally like the word trust, but I don't want to make it too controversial, because everyone have different understandings of trust.
Peter Liu: but they could have very, you know, same understanding of security. We just, we just abstract them as security claims.
Nancy: Well, that's why my earlier comment was with the notion of trust.
Nancy: What you believe is trustworthy versus what I believe is trustworthy may be subtly different.
Nancy: and that goes to the claim sets which I was calling a compliance profile.
Peter Liu: Hmm, well.
Peter Liu: yes. So so I think that's I think we are on the same page. So that. That's why I kind of use the word security, satisfying security, dash satisfying instead of you know, trust or or compliance. But eventually I think we we expecting the same thing.
Nancy: Okay. So coming back to the charter, because that's the most important.
Peter Liu: Is there wording.
Nancy: I'm I'm looking at the github right now. Thanks, Luigi.
Michael Richardson: So I there was a pull request
Michael Richardson: And I made a couple of of of English comments.
Michael Richardson: But you haven't merged that pull request into this text, so
Michael Richardson: not sure what you want to do. That was from who
Michael Richardson: ggx, which is.
Luigi Iannone: That's me!
Michael Richardson: There you go. Yeah,
Michael Richardson: so I don't know if you want to just quickly merge that. Or if you want to discuss what what Luigi proposed. I don't have any problem with what is just. There was a couple of
Michael Richardson: word order issues.
Michael Richardson: and I'm also concerned about the word remains elusive, which was in your new text, actually goes in the old text, too, isn't it?
Michael Richardson: I think remains elusive. Makes it seem like we can't get there either.
Nancy: Yeah, that would not. That would not be good.
Michael Richardson: Has been a challenge for others, or you know, we're anyway, it just been out of scope, for
Michael Richardson: nobody's done the work because it's not because it's necessarily, you know, so impossible, but because it's not been in their mandate.
Michael Richardson: There's no point doing the work. If no one's going to implement either.
Nancy: That is correct.
Michael Richardson: And my impression is we have a critical mass of
Michael Richardson: implementers who want to write code and operators that wish to deploy it.
Michael Richardson: That's my impression is, we really do.
Luigi Iannone: This here, right.
Michael Richardson: Yeah. So you know, you can accept that suggestion.
Michael Richardson: My, my add latency. I added latency to the list before.
Michael Richardson: I don't remember that I mean I do. But I don't remember it being here.
Michael Richardson: No, this one was updated. Motivation number 5.
Peter Liu: Think there's another pull request.
Michael Richardson: Yeah. So that's already merged. So you've already done that updated motivation. Yeah, foreclosed. Don't go to closed. It's open.
Luigi Iannone: The last one.
Michael Richardson: Yeah.
Luigi Iannone: I don't. Wanna.
Michael Richardson: Yeah, Yeah, updated motivation yeah, yeah, yeah.
Luigi Iannone: Oh, I didn't. I see? Yeah.
Michael Richardson: See all I you just use the suggestion to change the text of not anymore. It was just, that's just awkward English. It's probably correct, but it's awkward.
Luigi Iannone: oh, yeah, yeah, we can manage this. Actually,
Luigi Iannone: I can merge, this and then rework on the yeah, yeah.
Nancy: If you merge it, Luigi, then I can work off, because, as I mentioned, I was doing my own rewrite.
Luigi Iannone: There are conflicts to be, we'll go over it and and merge it.
Yutaka OIWA: Okay.
Michael Richardson: Yeah, you could merge my suggestions without resolving it, and then you could resolve it.
Peter Liu: There's a.
Michael Richardson: Thing I suggest is, it's much easier. Forget if you always start new sentences on new lines
Michael Richardson: and you get smaller diffs.
Michael Richardson: Since Markdown wraps that all up for you, nobody else sees it. It just becomes a.
Luigi Iannone: Okay. So I come.
Michael Richardson: Submit suggestion. Yeah, that's right.
Michael Richardson: Then you can do the same to the other one. The other suggestion.
Michael Richardson: Or you could have put them in a batch. But whatever doesn't really matter.
Michael Richardson: and you still have conflicts. So okay.
Yutaka OIWA: One.
Luigi Iannone: So it was a way to directly add the the conflicts right.
Peter Liu: I thought there used to be ways to resolve conflicts on the web page.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah, it is for the other one.
Luigi Iannone: I'm.
Nancy: Never had luck. I've had to go.
Nancy: Manual.
Yutaka OIWA: Use the command line.
Peter Liu: Maybe, Michael, do you? Do you have the
Peter Liu: Do you have the right to to to merge or pull request? Maybe
Peter Liu: you can have to. You can help to resolve the conflict.
Michael Richardson: I I can go and resolve that conflict for you while we're you're talking. Yeah.
Luigi Iannone: Yes, please.
Yutaka OIWA: Maybe the base debasing is needed before margin.
Yutaka OIWA: What happens if you click the use the command line.
Yutaka OIWA: Bruticist.
Yutaka OIWA: Okay.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah, I mean this, I know.
Yutaka OIWA: He's like.
Luigi Iannone: It's usually what I do, but I wanted to do it on. Live just on the web page.
Peter Liu: Okay, I think Michael's fixed.
Peter Liu: So while we wait, do, we have agreements on the work items
Peter Liu: currently listed in the in the charter.
Yutaka OIWA: Maybe we need some disc some, but I think that are good to set for the current moment.
Peter Liu: So we all agree. These are good proposed work items.
Yutaka OIWA: Prop at least good list for a proposed mailing list.
Peter Liu: Conflict is gone. Did you want me to merge that one.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah. Go ahead.
Michael Richardson: It looks like the the Git Command line. Merge did not have a conflict.
Yutaka OIWA: Oh!
Luigi Iannone: It.
Michael Richardson: I just. Github doesn't always know
Michael Richardson: it doesn't use all of the merge mechanism methods all the time.
Luigi Iannone: So here we go.
Michael Richardson: So it's merged. If you hit reload, it should.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah, we have it with the customer. Right?
Peter Liu: Yeah, I think it's first.st
Luigi Iannone: No.
Michael Richardson: Customers with high security. There you go!
Luigi Iannone: Yeah.
Peter Liu: Right.
Luigi Iannone: So this part will be a little bit reworked as discussed to avoid customer network deployments and
Luigi Iannone: our operators as we discussed.
Luigi Iannone: This. Maybe, we said, put it at the end work items. Since they we agree, we may need to. We will drop this section. The paragraph, sorry.
Luigi Iannone: and maybe we have to revise a little bit. This I didn't go through that this part.
Luigi Iannone: yeah, I can revise it and and propose revised text.
Luigi Iannone: so that that we agree on by early next week at latest.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah.
Luigi Iannone: So we'll send it most probably tomorrow and
Luigi Iannone: the few minutes left, unless you. You still have anything you want to share on on the chat that we can have a quick go on the naming.
Luigi Iannone: so I gather it. I listed everything that is being mentioned, but the most
Luigi Iannone: the the ones that oops that were more prefer. That would say, I want to keep NASA,
Luigi Iannone: or to shift to Felpa, as proposed by Diego.
Michael Richardson: I think.
Luigi Iannone: The latest email were were about, keeping the the acronym so that we show that we have worked.
Luigi Iannone: We didn't change the proposal. We worked to improve the proposal.
Luigi Iannone: That's my reading on the mailing list.
Michael Richardson: I suggested at some point that was widely agreed some months ago that we would prefer to have secured routing or forwarding rather than secure.
Michael Richardson: but I don't know if that was.
Luigi Iannone: So we have forwarding here.
Michael Richardson: Yeah. Well, this, I think, before we even got to forwarding versus route routing, I thought we we were going to change it from secure to secured.
Luigi Iannone: Oh! Secure!
Peter Liu: Of course.
Michael Richardson: Yeah.
Peter Liu: Just put a d on the end.
Michael Richardson: But indeed.
Michael Richardson: in there I think it. It works better, probably with all of the different proposals, unless you go to verifiable or dependable.
Michael Richardson: or whatever.
Luigi Iannone: Well, I did it. Do.
Michael Richardson: Luigi, can you say? Can you say the word, Felpa for us with your with a good good, you know accent.
Yutaka OIWA: I don't have the good accent, because I'm Italian, and Diego is Spanish, so.
Michael Richardson: Say it was a good Mediterranean accent, you know, like, you know.
Luigi Iannone: In Italy we have that word which is Pelpa, and that means sweatshirt.
Michael Richardson: Sweatshirt.
Nancy: In Spanish means, felt.
Peter Liu: It's very different.
Luigi Iannone: It's exhaust exactly the same stuff.
Michael Richardson: Routing protocol that you can wear while you're working out.
Luigi Iannone: So should we go for this.
Yutaka OIWA: I personally prefer favorite.
Yutaka OIWA: I don't argue strongly.
Nancy: I mean, we can use the terms that effectively. What we're doing is we're providing evidence for forwarding. But
Yutaka OIWA: Hmm.
Luigi Iannone: There was my proposal at the beginning, like accountable or.
Peter Liu: Sounds, like.
Luigi Iannone: Like like that, we can still have the nasser acronym by playing with the letters that we use. I mean at the end, if you wish that this word here.
Peter Liu: So accountable.
Luigi Iannone: Changeable.
Peter Liu: I mean accountable is another word that could lead to confusion.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah,
Nancy: I think secured. Forwarding is fine.
Michael Richardson: And and you know we could also, just in the whole thing we could let the Isg, you know.
Michael Richardson: do the bike shedding.
Luigi Iannone: Yeah, okay, let's let's just because we let's settle for this with secured.
Michael Richardson: Okay.
Peter Liu: I?
Peter Liu: Yeah, I mean, do, is there? Is I so sorry? I don't know like in the past, Buffs, do they
Peter Liu: do this kind of poll, of naming on the on the spot.
Michael Richardson: Sure. Yeah.
Peter Liu: They do that.
Michael Richardson: Yeah. And then they take it as as input. To the Isg to
Michael Richardson: who will make the decision anyway?
Peter Liu: Oh, can we just produce candidates, final candidates of Poll.
Michael Richardson: And and occasionally, you know, someone at the Isg level comes back and says, Oh, wait! In this particular language. It's an extremely rude word. Oh, all right, you know. Nobody knew right.
Nancy: This is why, sticking to Nasser, we don't have to go through the whole pain again.
Nancy: Given that. We only have 2min left. I was going to ask the question.
Nancy: because last time, although I don't see a whole lot of people on this call, either.
Nancy: I'm okay. Keeping this time 7 Am. Pacific for me.
Nancy: cause I think, Luigi, our next call was, gonna Be very early for you.
Luigi Iannone: Yes, that's the the next one.
Nancy: Yeah, 20, second, right?
Luigi Iannone: So let me put full screen so that it's more readable.
Luigi Iannone: So parties is 5 o'clock in the morning.
Luigi Iannone: Beijing in Tokyo is middle of the day for you is evening.
Nancy: Right.
Nancy: I was just gonna ask a question because
Nancy: there were a couple of people that complained the last time.
Luigi Iannone: Oh, well, I don't have any preference. It's it's it's
Luigi Iannone: I found fair that we
Luigi Iannone: we change the time so that we share the day in a certain way.
Luigi Iannone: just keep it as it is.
Yutaka OIWA: Just for information. Iso has very strict rule for
Yutaka OIWA: time, slot every 8h, separated in 3 slots like
Yutaka OIWA: somewhere in early morning, but not to the night time in East Asia and Europe and
Yutaka OIWA: San Francisco. Somewhere.
Nancy: So we we can stick to this. I just have to remember. It's the day before for me.
Yutaka OIWA: Okay. So for me, it's 1 8. Now one am. So I have to leave now. But.
Nancy: So you, Ted. This is why we we did. This alternate time was to make it easier for
Nancy: for Asia.
Yutaka OIWA: Yeah.
Yutaka OIWA: For me. It's okay. But yeah.
Nancy: So we we
Nancy: oh, yeah, we didn't want to make it too much later, because of the people on the East Coast.
Nancy: Michael, I don't know how late cause you're in Canada.
Nancy: Ottawa.
Michael Richardson: Yeah, I'm in the New York New York equivalent time zone. So yeah, you know, if you made it later, I would, I would. It wouldn't be any different. Staying up to 11 to midnight is the same as midnight to one. You gotta stay up and need coffee, and you might need a disco nap, and whatever.
Nancy: I yeah, I was gonna say for the Europeans. I don't know if if shifting it to 1h later. But
Nancy: I'm fine keeping it, Luigi. I just I know. Last time we had the call late. People complained.
Nancy: I don't remember. I just remember it was the people in Europe.
Luigi Iannone: Oh,
Luigi Iannone: Since at the very 1st meeting that we had back in in November.
Luigi Iannone: There was some some form of confusion about the hours, the day, etcetera, as well. I would keep the schedule as it is to avoid that someone comes up with. Oh, I thought, is the other hour, because I noted already my calendar or something like that. I would keep it. But it's just my opinion. I mean, it's.
Nancy: Yep, no, this is. This is fine. Then I just wanted to to make sure.
Nancy: at least with those that are on the call right now that it's fine. So
Nancy: okay, with that, I do have to go to my next call.
Nancy: But I think.
Luigi Iannone: Okay.
Nancy: We're converging, which is good.
Peter Liu: Sorry. Just we. We are using this this same time, or we are keeping the original meeting schedule on the Github.
Luigi Iannone: Dude.
Michael Richardson: Time is what I heard, not changing.
Yutaka OIWA: Not the same thing right?
Nancy: Not changing. It's whatever we posted on the Github.
Nancy: Okay? Okay? Meaning the. It'll be.
Yutaka OIWA: For for 4 am. Utc.
Nancy: Correct.
Peter Liu: That's it.
Peter Liu: Okay.
Luigi Iannone: As a very last piece of information in the Itf Nas organization we created as well the the post request we are working on it. It's not.
Luigi Iannone: It's not final, obviously, but.
Nancy: Yeah, that's the one I'm marking up. Luigi.
Luigi Iannone: It.
Nancy: So.
Luigi Iannone: Me and you, Nancy, we need to work on this one. And we yeah, it's just to to let everybody knows that that there is this repository? If they have any suggestion or anything they can help us in animate.
Luigi Iannone: And that's it.
Peter Liu: Okay.
Yutaka OIWA: Okay.
Luigi Iannone: Okay, so we we are 3min over time. Thank you very much for all the.
Yutaka OIWA: Thank you very much.
Luigi Iannone: Discussion. I think we are making progress. We now need to write it down, and
Luigi Iannone: and we are good. I think.
Nancy: Yeah. So I'll I'll try and submit mine. My updates. Okay.
Luigi Iannone: Thank you very much.
Yutaka OIWA: Thank you very much. Bye, bye.
Luigi Iannone: You all. Bye-bye.